lastly i found my dream pair of shoes  that i have been  just curious about when they would come  into my life and it happened and there  are these cowgirl boots which are  so beautiful i thrifted a pair of  cowgirl boots like five years ago and  they broke within the first month  because the leather was so worn and  since then i have been  open and ready for my next pair to  appear into my life there is so much  over consumption shown online but my  relationship with clothing is fully  it's just grounded like i only buy  things that i absolutely love you can  look up this brand online the sallian  boots and belt company they fit  perfectly and i just love all these  little embroidered hearts and it also  has some silver embellished hearts on  there as well  they're just so  cool  and then the internet was a big one  because the internet came along and i  started watching those videos that a lot  of them that peta puts up of factory  farming oh and  terrible it's horrible it's not just  terrible it's it's like it doesn't make  any sense it's like this is this is like  human beings at their very worst  [Music]  [Music]  we treated these things as like the the  most  i mean not just as a commodity but we've  ignored their feelings and their  thoughts and their that the fact that  they have instincts and needs and then  we've stuffed them into these tiny  little cages it's a sickness avalucienne  i participated in a storm of controversy  today i participated in not one but two  massive debates on uh discord  and i i won i won both  i won the first one while bench pressing  over 220 pounds i forget it was maybe  230 but 200  i was distracted i was having this  debate on discord and the second one uh  well i was doing push-ups and uh  upright row with 105 pounds but i won  that also anyway this is about the  second debate and melissa's off camera  but she's just uh asked me a few  questions about this so the second  debate which we're talking about here  had to do with second-hand leather and  secondhand morality  a very small number of vegans want to  make excuses for secondhand leather  keeping retaining and using items that  are secondhand leather themselves i  don't dig secondhand morality and i'm  morally consistent on this because i'm  also against second-hand pets and  second-hand horses i don't care that you  didn't buy the horse in the first place  if you keep the horses a captive and you  ride on its back and you feed it hay and  you take it to the vet you're doing all  the things of that horse ownership  entails whether you call this  exploitation or use or just ownership  it's not vegan it doesn't matter that  you got the horse for free it doesn't  matter if it was a gift doesn't matter  if you bought it second hand doesn't  matter if it was a rescue animal does  not matter if you stole it right and  this applies for me also directly to  leather  if you broke into the leather store with  a gun and stole it at gunpoint it's  still leather you're still acquiring  owning and using leather and if inasmuch  as veganism is opposed to the use of  animal products it's opposed to the use  of leather whether you stole it whether  you got as a hand-me-down like was given  to you for free by your older brother  or you got it second hand  buying leather at a second hand shop is  still buying leather and again again  even if you eliminate the buying stage  you're still participating in this cycle  of suffering at all the other stages  you're still participating in the market  mechanism and the ethical decision here  just like anyone else but just without  that first stage of paying money  into the system now if your version of  vegan ethics hangs totally on the moment  of purchase you may not see it that way  so those are the people i've just been  debating with  but for me it's the whole gestalt right  um  ultimately sorry i have used this  example before on the channel if someone  is putting cocaine down on a table and  then they have to get up and leave the  nightclubs there's a nightclub and  somebody's put this cocaine i don't care  that the cocaine is there for me to use  for free someone else might say oh well  this cocaine would go to waste i  personally ethically wouldn't purchase  the cocaine but given that it's free  here given that someone else has in  effect bought the cocaine they would use  it for free from my perspective that's  what you could call a free rider fallacy  the fact that someone else has committed  murder or someone else has committed  rape or someone else has purchased  cocaine if you regard it as morally bad  you're not looking for your opportunity  to jump on and take advantage of that  for free if you regard the production of  leather as morally bad if this purchase  and sale of leather is morally bad  you're not looking for your opportunity  to be a moral free writer and jump on  and get it get it for free say oh well  somebody else already killed it somebody  else already packaged it and sold it i  can get it secondhand or i can get it as  a hand-me-down great it was my chance to  wear leather and use it no that's  morally incoherent i'm not into  secondhand leather i'm not into  second-hand morality now there's a flip  side of this which is what my girlfriend  melissa asked me about which is about  the vegan not being in the role of the  recipient but the role of the donor so  when people first go vegan they often  own  meat they have some meat in their fridge  they own dairy they own eggs they own  leather  and the question is what should they do  with these objects now i half jokingly  say to people when they ask me  get a shovel go in your backyard dig a  grave and bury it  i'm only half joking because  this is indirectly my opinion  if you make the decision to take this  leather and give it to your brother tom  you're making the moral judgment oh i  would never wear this leather  i would never this is immoral for me but  for someone like you it's acceptable i  mean this is looking down your nose at  tom saying well for an inferior person  like you tom this is okay  same with cocaine if i have let's say  somehow i've ended up with a bag of  cocaine in my possession am i going to  turn around and hand it to my own  daughter and say well look i have no use  for this i would never use cocaine but  maybe you and your friends can have fun  with it no it's totally morally  incoherent again the the issue of it  being my daughter obviously is more  evocative because there's an issue of  moral responsibility but my point is  we're all morally responsible for each  other doesn't matter if it's my daughter  or my brother or my friend from high  school or my high school principal go to  the high school principal and say hey  you you maybe you can make use of this  cocaine if you think cocaine is bad you  don't want to use it yourself you don't  want to encourage others to use it  you're not going to enable others to use  it if i think wearing leather is bad i'm  not going to use it myself i'm not going  to give it to my brother tom et cetera  now actually burning in your backyard is  is not that great  not that great to use uh it's not that  great a solution  it's not not that that great way to get  rid of it but i think for for a lot of  us i did come into veganism as an  ecological vegan something uh melissa  and i have in common um  [Music]  but i think there's a false aesthetic of  waste and waste avoidance involved here  where people say they don't want to  waste things and then this justifies  doing something that's immoral so for me  it's the same with the cocaine oh well  this cocaine is going to go to waste if  you don't snort it up or use it because  someone else left it you didn't buy it  you didn't plan this way but it's here  so now you can be a free rider no  cocaine belongs in the garbage good for  me it's morally positive to see cocaine  swept off the table and thrown up with  the trash good it belongs in the trash  that's morally positive it's not morally  neutral that's a good thing  cheese belongs in the garbage good i  don't regret that i don't say i don't  say oh what a waste this should have  been eaten by a human being no that's  the opposite of what i believe i don't  want to eat it myself i don't think  anyone should eat it i'm morally opposed  to people eating cheese so when cheese  gets put in the garbage it's not a waste  i don't work hard this is that's a waste  i regard it as morally positive i'm  sorry so on so on down the line leather  i mean now my argument on this again is  not based on the symbolic value of  leather although that's also interesting  if you are morally opposed to rape you  won't be going around wearing a t-shirt  that says rape is normal rape is okay  rape is no big deal it's morally  incoherent this is the symbolic argument  that people like gary francione lean on  where they say oh well by wearing  leather you're sending out the signal  wearing leather as normal wearing  leather is acceptable now i think that's  interesting kind of window dressing i  think it's an interesting element of  living in a culture and it's there's  some truth to that if everyone around  you is wearing fur  it becomes socially normalized if  everyone around you is smoking  cigarettes it's social normalizing if  you take a stand and say no smoking  cigarettes is wrong then you're also not  against cigarettes going in the garbage  you're not regarding that as a waste  great let's let's throw let's throw more  cigarettes in the garbage they're not  going to waste if they're if they're  getting thrown out uh however so it's  not based on symbolic reasoning in that  sense but it is based on an acceptance  that one there is no hard and fast moral  distinction between acquiring something  new and acquiring it second hand whether  it's secondhand leather  second hand rape second hand murder  second hand cocaine now i just want to  insert here the caveat  i can recognize that something is the  lesser of two evils but the lesser of  two evils is still evil  i do think it's different if you're  given a leather jacket  as a hand-me-down from your older  brother i understand it's not the same  as you going to buy there are people who  inherit fur coats from their  grandparents it's a hundred-year-old for  a coat of selling i understand that's  less evil than going to a store now and  buying anyone or going to a store and  ordering one and saying yeah kill that  animal slit its throat and make it into  this style of code no no no i want this  style so make sure it's an extra gray  animal and kill it and i want them  vertical not horizontally in this kind  of [ __ ] you can hear people talking  about this is part of how the furniture  a lot of stuff is made to order my mom's  fur coat was was made to order i know my  unless she's gotten rid of it my mom  used to go around on a fur coat i  remember that anyway  um  the fact that something is the lesser of  two evils doesn't mean it's morally  neutral and again wasting something  throwing away something that you think  is evil from my perspective is morally  positive so i just got the argument for  example oh but if you let it go to waste  like if you don't eat this leftover  cheese this leftover pizza if you don't  eat this roadkill animal then you're  going to go and buy more broccoli  so do harmful and i expect no i see  buying broccoli is morally positive oh  if you don't recycle these second-hand  leather shoes then you're gonna go and  buy a new pair of vegan shoes and that's  semi-terrible no  buying vegan shoes is morally positive  and again whether it's direct or  indirect if it's a knock-on defect for  your brother tom or something  tom also you should encourage him to go  and buy  vegan shoes whether you're the the donor  or the recipient ultimately if you're  trying to stamp out the use of  cigarettes  a lot of cigarettes are going to end up  in the garbage trying to stamp out the  use of leather shoes a lot of leather  shoes are going to end in the garbage if  you call that a waste i think you're in  a morally incoherent position what did  you say  all right  okay  hey under 10 minutes uh i think that's a  wrap for me it's a really morally simple  issue for someone like a natural vegan  it's more complex because a natural  vegan doesn't oppose all animal use she  allows the use of animals as pets and  then in an allegory to that she says  you're allowed to own a cow and keep it  in captivity and exploit it to produce  milk in as much as you uh treat the cow  as well as you treat a cat or dog for me  it's all animal use  those animals don't want to be a toy or  a play thing for human amusement  that cow doesn't want to live in a shed  in captivity and produce milk free to  consume none of that's morally coherent  and using animals to produce clothing  out of them or to produce food out of  them is immoral even if you somehow got  the animal second hand  so buying meat from a grocer right from  a grocery store obviously supports  animal cruelty but eating someone's like  chicken tenders that they were gonna  throw away  what  how is that a problem i think it's a  shame that someone who  eats a vegan diet  avoids palm oil but let's say they buy  like i don't know maybelline  foundation or something every few months  or they buy a pair of leather shoes  every few years  they can't call themselves vegan and i  just want more than anything like if i  could have one witch  of life  even if it meant like after my wish i  had to live on the streets for the rest  of my life i would wish to go into every  single slaughterhouse and free all those  animals and give them love  which is just so heartbreaking to me  um yeah  i really  i don't know why i'm filming this  i just want to build awareness more than  anything and  step one  eggs all right we're gonna separate the  yolks and the whites the whites are  gonna go in the mixing bowl  the yolks are gonna go  and also a mixing bowl  this one's for the mixer great  [Music]  um  [Music]